 Anti-aromatase therapy is important in the treatment of breast cancer in postmenopausal women but they have effects on the bone mineral density (BMD) and osteoporosis. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors have been shown to be effective in chemoprevention in animal and clinical studies. A proof of principle study was performed to investigate the efficacy of combing anti-aromatase therapy (exemestane) and COX-2 inhibitors neoadjuvantly. The changes in the BMD, bone turnover proteins and quality-of-life (QoL) were analyzed and presented here. 82 postmenopausal patients with histologically confirmed invasive hormone-sensitive breast cancers were included for the neoadjuvant therapy (NHT). 30 patients received exemestane (EXE) 25 mg daily and celecoxib (CXB) 400 mg twice daily (group A), 24 patients received EXE 25 mg daily (group B) and 28 patients received letrozole (LET) 2.5 mg daily (group C). The same assigned treatment was intended to continue for 2 years to study the changes in the bone metabolism. BMD of 48 patients were analyzed; 23 belongs to group A, 10 to group B and 15 to group C. The serum bone turnover proteins bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (BAP) and carboxyterminal crosslinked telopeptide of type I collagen (ICTP), were measured with commercially available test kits before treatment, 3 months and 15 months after treatment. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy core questionnaire (FACT-G) with its additional breast cancer subscale were performed at baseline, 4, 8, and 12 weeks after NHT. Difference between groups (p=0.007) for BMD at femur was significant. The changes of BMD in group B patients were significantly greater than patients in group A (p=0.011, CI=0.063-0.437), and group C (p=0.003, CI=0.146-0.620). The mean BAP increased from baseline in group B patients but decreased from baseline in group C patients at 3 months and 15 months. No statistical significance was found in the FACT-G scores and FACT-B scores among different groups at baseline, week 4, week 8 and week 12 after NHT. The Breast Cancer Subscale scores in group A patients were significantly higher than that of group C patients (p=0.021). After 4 weeks of NHT, negative changes of FACT-B and FACT-G scores were found in group B and C patients, but there were positive changes in group A patients. Significant differences of FACT-B score (p=0.008) and FACT-G score (p=0.019) were observed at that time point. Article from the Special issue on Targeted Inhibitors. 