 Treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic esophagogastric adenocarcinoma should not only prolong life but also provide relief of symptoms and improve quality of life (QOL). Esophagogastric adenocarcinoma mainly occurs in elderly patients, but they are underrepresented in most clinical trials and often do not receive effective combination chemotherapy, most probably for fear of intolerance. Using validated instruments, we prospectively assessed QOL within the randomized FLOT65+ phase II trial. Within the FLOT65+ trial, a total of 143 patients aged ≥65 years were randomly allocated to receive biweekly oxaliplatin plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) continuous infusion and folinic acid (FLO) or the same regimen in combination with docetaxel 50 mg/m(2) (FLOT). The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and the gastric module STO22 were administered every 8 weeks until progression. Time to definitive deterioration of QOL parameters was analyzed and compared within the treatment arms. The median age of patients was 70 years. Patients receiving FLOT exhibited higher response rates and had improved disease-free and progression-free survival (PFS). The proportions of patients with evaluable baseline EORTC QLQ-C30 and STO22 questionnaires were balanced (83 % in FLOT and 89 % in FLO). Considering evaluable patients with assessable questionnaires (n = 123), neither functioning nor symptom parameters differed significantly in favor of one of the two treatment groups. Particularly, there was no significant difference regarding time to definitive deterioration of global health status/quality of life from baseline (primary endpoint). Notably, patients receiving FLO or FLOT as palliative treatment (n = 98) achieved comparable QOL results. Although toxicity was higher in patients receiving FLOT, no negative impact of the addition of docetaxel on QOL parameters could be demonstrated. Thus, elderly patients in need of intensified chemotherapy may receive FLOT without compromising patient-reported outcome parameters. 