 The second International Society of Paediatric Oncology (SIOP) study for rhabdomyosarcoma (MMT84) had several goals. The two principal aims were: (1) to improve the survival of children with rhabdomyosarcoma; and (2) to reduce the late effects from therapy by restricting the indications for surgery and/or radiotherapy after good response to initial chemotherapy. A further aim was to investigate the role of high-dose chemotherapy in young patients with parameningeal primary tumours. 186 previously untreated eligible patients entered the study. Patients with completely resected primary tumour received three courses of IVA (ifosfamide, vincristine and actinomycin D). Patients with incompletely resected tumour received six to 10 courses of IVA according to stage. Patients achieving complete remission with chemotherapy alone did not usually receive radiotherapy or undergo extensive surgery, but patients remaining in partial remission received local therapy with surgery and/or radiotherapy. Only patients over 5 years of age with parameningeal disease and patients over 12 years with tumours at any site were given systematic irradiation. Complete remission was achieved in 91% (170/186) of all patients. With a median follow-up of 8 years, the 5-year overall survival was 68% (+/- 3% standard error of the mean (SEM) and the 5-year event-free survival 53% (+/- 4% SEM). These results show an improvement over previous SIOP study (RMS75) in which survival was 52% and event-free survival was 47%. Among the 54 patients who exhibited isolated local relapse, 35% (19/54) survived in further remission longer than 2 years after retreatment, including local therapy (surgery +/- radiotherapy). Analysis of the overall burden of therapy received by all surviving children (including primary treatment and treatment for relapse if required) showed that 24% (28/116) were treated by limited surgery followed by three courses of IVA, 29% (34/116) were treated by chemotherapy alone (after initial biopsy) and 13% (15/116) received chemotherapy plus conservative local treatment (limited surgery or radiotherapy for residual disease). Only 34% (39/116) received intensive local therapy defined as radical wide field radiotherapy or radical surgery or both. Compared with the results obtained in the previous SIOP study, treatment in MMT84 was based on response to initial chemotherapy and, despite an overall reduction of the use of local therapy, significantly improved survival for patients with non-metastatic disease. This trial, also for the first time, provides evidence that retreatment after local relapse can achieve long-term second remissions. 